	As a student who has studied under Professor Hammerich for 3 semesters, I can say without hesitation that Professor Hammerich provides exemplary knowledge and understanding of the course material. Professor Hammerich divides the coursework into digestible sections, ensuring that they are organized in ways that just make sense. Professor Hammerich is always careful to choose thought provoking questions that promote a thorough understanding of the material for each given day, and is sure to emphasize on the critical material, often using repetition. In order to help solidify our understanding of the coursework, Professor Hammerich also incorporates historical as well as current events to the day's lesson plan. As a student, this technique helps me by creating points in the material that I can  relate to points in time. This also carries the added benefit of helping me stay engaged during class time. Of course, this is just one of many techniques Professor Hammerich has demonstrated.  
  	Professor Hammerich displays essential personal values that are beneficial
and often necessary for students to grow into not just functional, but outstanding 
citizens. Putting the students first, Professor Hammerich always comes to class well prepared with interesting and provocative ways of presenting the days material, and is always open to suggestions so long as they do not distract from the material. As we work in class, Professor Hammerich will visit each group numerous times, clearing up any questions or misunderstandings that we as students might have. If something remains unclear Professor Hammerich is easily approachable and never intimidating as she is always tactful and polite with all of her students. Professor Hammerich has always been courteous with me and maintains excellent relationships with all the students, proving to be a perfect model of civility. 

I.
  Subject Mastery and Scholarship

    i.   
      demonstrates mastery of the subject matter in courses taught

      Frau Hammerich displays exemplary knowledge of the course material.

    ii.     
      Has the ability to organize, emphasize and clarify ideas.

      Frau Hammerich is thoughtful of the organization of coursework in order to emphasize important subject matter.

    iii.    
      Elicits useful questions and communicates knowledge beyond the simple exchange of information. 

      Frau Hammerich asks useful questions that promote deeper thought and understanding.

    iv.
      Blends new ideas, research and developments into classroom.

      Frau Hammerich integrates current events to keep classwork engaging. 

II.
  Teaching Effectiveness and Creativity

    i.
      The teacher has developed effective skills in managing the art and craft of teaching.
      Frau Hammerich demonstrates her skills in teaching.
    
    ii.
      Well prepared for class with interesting and clear presentations
      Frau Hammerich is well prepared for class with her clear and interesting presentations of course material.

    iii.
      Fair and reasonable evaluation of students
      Frau Hammerich is always reasonable about the evaluation of her students.

    iv.
      Open to new techniques and approaches to stimulate learning and demonstrates these qualities in innovative ways.
      Frau Hammerich is always open to new techniques so long as they stimulate learning.

III.
  Personal Values Beneficial to Students

    i.
      The teacher has interest in student learning and the quality of learning environment
      Frau Hammerich shows her concern for her students learning experience.

    ii.
      Is enthusiastic about teaching, approachable and tolerant of different viewpoints.
      Frau Hammerich is enthusiastic about teaching and is always approachable.

    iii.
      Sensitive to culture, ethic and gender differences among students
      Frau Hammerich is always tactful and polite with all students.

    iv
      Promotes civility and good relationships among students.
      Frau Hammerich is always courteous and maintains excellent relationships with her students, proving to be a perfect model of civility.
